- [Instructor] Now that we have laid down a foundation
for the Java Standard Edition platform concurrency APIs,
it's time to move on to the Java Enterprise Edition
concurrency utilities, but the first basic question
that should come to mind is, why do we need a separate API?
We already know that a certain API's under
the Standard Edition platform, why can't we just use them
and integrate into the Enterprise application?
Yeah, that's a very valid question and let's understand why.
Every Java Enterprise application always works
within an application server, the underlying container,
and these containers provide runtime support
for application components like Enterprise Java Beans
and servlets.
They provide a layer between the application component code
and the platform services and resources.
Very often, Java Enterprise servers provide
central resource management,
resources like JDBC data sources,
transaction management, connection pooling, et cetera.
These resources are centrally managed
so that the other application components
do not end up consuming unnecessary resources.
So, there is this managed environment
that is set up by the container, and in such an environment,
application integrity is very important.
So, when you have a managed environment like that,
applications can coexist without causing any harm
to the overall system.
So, when you have a thread running a job
in an enterprise environment,
the container is going to expect
that the thread gets all the container's supplied objects
and resources to run the asynchronous task.
Another thing is, the thread is required
to access the Standard Enterprise Edition services,
like Java Messaging Service,
Enterprise Java Beans, et cetera.
And for this, it is required that the contextual information
of the container is provided to the thread.
Contextual information is Java naming
and directory interface naming, class loader information,
security context.
It is very important that the container
propagates this information to all the threads
executing the jobs for you.
Now we've seen that there's a managed environment,
the central resource management,
this contextual information, et cetera,
which means, if we try to create our own threads
using the Java Standard Edition platform,
then the container will not be aware
or wouldn't have any knowledge of these thread resources.
And in that case, it will be problem
because it will not be able to provide correctly
the contextual information needed
to access the Java Enterprise services.
That's why when you have an Enterprise Java Bean
or a servlet, they are not able to reliably use
the standard EE services from a thread
which is not managed by the container.
So, now it'll be wiser for the container
to have those threads managed instead
of us creating them ourselves,
and that's exactly why the Java Enterprise Edition
concurrency utilities were born.
So, this API was released as a Java specification
request 236 in Java EE 7,
which enabled enterprise applications
to submit asynchronous tasks.
So, the goal was to define and use centralized,
manageable objects inside the Java Enterprise server.
Now, the Java Enterprise concurrency API
is actually an extension to the java.util.concurrent APIs,
which is a Standard Edition platform,
and it was done so that there's a smooth migration path
from the SE to the EE.
So, these new concurrency APIs that are a part
of the Java Enterprise platform now become the resources
of the container, so everything is going to managed
by the container now.
These concurrency APIs will help you to manage
and monitor the lifecycle of all the asynchronous operations
in your Java Enterprise application component.
So, it could be an EJB, it could be a servlet,
it could be a RESTful bean.
And when you have all the threads
and all these resources managed by the container,
then the threads which are executing
the tasks will be provided
with the correct contextual information of the container.
In the next video, we will look at the API hierarchy,
the main APIs that we're going
to take a look at in this course.